Now, GitHub actions are super powerful.
You can do all sorts of crazy stuff like
we
talked about, but the very first one is
super easy.
Now, to our point that we can write
so many less tests now that we have
TypeScript.
It would be nice to have TypeScript
validate that things were okay too.
The easiest way to do that for most setups
these days is to just run the build
process.
Well, there must be why he called it build
and test.
And so like we can basically try to add
another step to this script, right?
That also tries to build the application,
that will expose any kind of
like TypeScript issues as well and will
allow us to see that as well.
And so we wanna just add another run
command to not only do NPM test but
then also do like NPM run build, and get
that process going as well.
So why don't you add that in and then
we'll take a look and we'll see it all
together?
Cuz I'll do it too and kick it off and
then we'll
view it and play around with it a little
bit as well.
So the workflow that we had before called
build-and-test but it only tested.
So our mission was to also make it build.
And there's a challenge mode here, which
is like
a segue into the next thing we'll talk
about.
But let's just deal with the major piece,
which is also built.
Now, if you're using my repo and it's live
there was like one issue with the type
alias
that stopped it from building, which is
great cuz
now I can show you kinda the good and bad.
So this is our first one where we had that
NPM test script that exited with a one.
Then we fixed it and then like build the
build did legit fail.
So you can kinda see a few things, right?
Which is one, it fails, and you can click
in.
This is in the Actions tab you can also
get to
it from the PR, where you can see okay,
here's where
it blew up you can see all the test stuff
as
well but that all pass, so nothing to look
at there.
But with the NPM run build, you can see
that it did blow up and the
kinda cool thing that it will do as well
is, where did it go?
Here it is, the annotations.
And you might have to do some
configuration but what's really cool
with this is if there are lint warnings
now also see that here as well.
It will annotate the PR with like, yeah,
this didn't break
the build but you got a little silly thing
here, right?
In this case, it's just showing you,
because you think a lot of these
stack traces have the file name and have
the line numbers and stuff like that.
So it is able to kind of show you and it
included the error code of two.
And so I fixed those and then I added them
to the commit.
So we go back to actions and you can see
that it passes at this point, right?
You get a sense of what branch it was on,
so on and
so forth, you can filter, in this case,
we're only doing on pull request.
You can hear all the different statuses.
And I will show you some of the events you
can watch for and a little bit as well.
The branch, the actor, there is one it is
me, cool.
So here you can see that in this case it
went successfully, which means now I
know that hey, this built before
merging
into main and all the tests pass, right?
Great, now nobody has to run it manually,
or anything along those lines we now
know with confidence that theoretically,
you can't merge bad code in the main.
The word theoretically is doing all the
work
in the sense because I totally can, right?
In fact, there are no rules in this repo,
I can do whatever I want.
And as an admin, you can always kinda do
whatever you want.
But this is why most companies have
principal place access, which is at most
decent
sized companies not even anyone on your
team
has admin access to your own repo, right?
And it's to stop you from doing things
like this.
Because in a lot of cases there are rules
around things you need to
do to be compliant to its name is SOC2, is
that the one, right?
Something, something Enron.
So now that there are a lot of safeguards
in place to make sure you can't do bad
things.
So how do we set that up for ourselves?
We can kinda go into the Settings and you
can also get here.
We'll see if in the pull requests to go to
Settings, I
go to Branches, and I have not protected
any of my branches.
Most importantly, the main one, the
important one.
So that's settings and branches.
But also I'm pretty sure if you go into
the PR, it will also
say hey, you can have some rules here,
would you like to add a rule?
It's very much like you should have some
rules.
Which brings you to the same page, was the
one clicking on main.
For most things with GitHub, actually I
was going to say GitHub, actually.
This is true for most things with GitHub.
If it is open source, almost everything is
free.
If you would like to make stuff private,
there's
some number of minutes that you get for
free,
I work at a SaaS company, I don't
understand
how pricing works, even for the thing I
work on.
But I also work on open source projects, I
don't care.
So here, we can do all this stuff, but if
you did make this repo private and you
don't see the ability to do all this stuff
like that's why, that's mostly why I
mentioned it.
So this is the main branch and again you
can do pattern matching here as well.
Require pull requests before merging means
that you can't push to main.
This one is tricky when it's a repo with
just you, but
you're also an admin and you can bypass
that rule anytime you want.
So you can do that or do not do it, which
is acquires approvals.
Cool, all sorts of little rules, generally
speaking, I'm not
gonna check most of these boxes because I
don't want to.
Because I'm one person demoing in front of
people, but you should probably check.
Almost all of these boxes, this one's
tricky because I tried this one one
time, and I wanna have it like auto-assign
the most helpful person, right?
But that person has to do it.
And you know what you never want is the
person who had like code over everything
being me.
And you never want the manager to have to
do a report request review because he's in
meetings.
[LAUGH] Right, and he's not the best on
that, right?
And so I had to turn that off.
And also we have people work in London,
yeah, it's time zones, life is hard.
But that one, maybe not.
And I'll talk about what you can do to
code under stuff in a second.
>> For the require approvals one, is that
anybody can approve it?
Is there a way to set it up so?
>> Anyone, I believe what this one has to
be with write access to the repo, right?
You can change the number to, I think that
they have to have-
>> So anyone who can push?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, I don't think I could be wrong on
that one because-
>> I think it's like collaborator.
>> Yeah, collaborator.
>> It's a permission level, yeah.
>> It's not just a Rando, not a Rando.
>> So is there a way to change that?
>> Not, I don't think you can change the
level.
>> That's just GitHub setting.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Maybe with enterprise.
>> You could use code owners.
So all kinda basically the high level.
Yeah, it is path name, username and it
means that like if you are touching this
file, this is really great for a mono
repo, we have different teams contributing
the same repo.
Which just like somebody from this team
has to be
the one approves it on their part of the
codebase, right?
And so you can get a little bit more
granular with who
can do it not just anyone in the org or
anyone as collaborator.
You can say only the people who are in
this file, can do it.
Yeah, which again, I'm on the full team is
eight people.
It was the eight of us, right?
So I tried to get very specific, always
this file, I worked on
this, so I would like it to auto-assign
me, but then it couldn't.
And you can require a view from the code
owners.
There's nuances here, but generally
speaking, don't let people push
main without somebody else rubber
stamping it, require approvals.
This is the one we care about, though.
Require status checks to pass before
merging because what is the point of
running the test suite if you're gonna let
people merge anyway if it fails?
Because then you've just merged failing
tests into
main and nobody likes the person who does
that.
This one makes sure that like you've like
rebased in main with that as well.
And so you've got like the latest version
of main that you're
based off of it's not like an old version,
and so on and so forth.
Cool, and you can pick which checks, and
hypothetically yep, I have
one which is built-and-test, which is run
by GitHub actions.
And that will say cool, before you can
merge into main, this check has to pass,
right?
Now, admins, not as clever as admins can
always override this and lisences a
personal repo.
I'm setting up a lot of rules that don't
apply to
me as the only person who can collaborate
with this repo.
There's some other ones in here, and these
are, again, these
fall when we talked about that systems,
process and then patterns.
This comes down to a lot more of the
process piece, whether or not
you choose to use code owners or something
like that, it's like a process.
This one, if you've seen like comments can
get resolved in the
threads, this is say all comments need to
have hit the resolve button.
So you can't be like, you should change
this and then somebody else
comes in and approves it, and then you
just ignore that other person, right?
Sign commits are if you do it from the UI,
they're signed.
But otherwise, you need to get a cert.
Yeah, lots of like ways that you can tweek
this.
Every box you check add safety, except for
the lock branch, which
just makes it, I guess lock branch makes
it really safe, right?
Because it means it can't change.
Yeah, this, yeah, this one, actually will
stop you from being able to break
your own rules, but then you could also
turn it off as an admin.
So [LAUGH] yes, you can lock the door that
you have the key too.
Yeah, obviously, every box you check has a
certain
level of safety and a certain amount of
hassle, right?
So this is a process piece of how do you
manage a team, managing a
code base, both either as a member of the
team or the leader of the team.
It's like figuring out what level you're
comfortable with.
Now, to be clear, it is very tempting to
be
all New Year's Eve about this or New
Year's Day.
Which is it's a new era of quality in our
code base and check every single box
and put on draconian and it's a great
way to have a small-scale revolution on
your team.
It is like the natural inclination, it's
like,
I found out about these features, we're
gonna have
the best process ever, I'm gonna make
everything safe,
and then there will be riots in your team.
So my suggestion that you didn't ask for
is
the obvious ones of make sure the checks
pass.
I think everyone could be on the same page
with this, don't merge failing tests or a
broken build.
That one seems non-controversial to me,
right?
Somebody should review this PR before I
just
open and merge it myself seems
non-controversial to me.
If we want later I can pull up my own repo
and see which ones
I like, some of them have been checked and
unchecked by people on my team.
[LAUGH] Right, and so we can see what the
current state
of the world is if somebody's interested
in a little bit.
Cool, and then you can see I can turn off
the
ability of what I just did earlier, which
is force push.
Again, sometimes you need these things.
But I would start small and build it up
and you can create this.
Cool, so now I've got these branch
protection rules in place,
and now I can't merge a broken build in,
review is required.
Did I check the box?
Not allowing me to do that, which is going
to become problematic
for me in a little bit because ain't
nobody else in this repo.
That's the thing that I will have to
address at
some point, but at least I demoed that it
worked.